Let's start in app.js and there, I have some code where I do get my user out of the session and then I
find the user by ID in a database and then I store the found user in my request object
so that for the entire request, I can access that user object,
it's a mongoose user object and I also catch
any potential errors that might be happening. Again because it's really important, this catch block will
not fire if I don't find the user with this ID,
it will only fire if there are any technical issues you could say, if the database is down or if the
user of this app does not have sufficient permissions to execute this action.
Now we kind of have our own error handling in place
and again we're not working with technical error objects here but here I am checking whether we do have
a session user
and I do have a solution for the case that this is not the case because if I would not add this check,
then I could try to find a user without the session object existing and that would then crash our
app.
So it makes sense to write clever code that avoids such scenarios and tries to only execute code that
will succeed.
It might of course still fail
and for some reason, we might still not find that user even if we have it stored in a session,
maybe because the user was deleted in a database in-between.
So it would make sense to also check for the existence of user or for the opposite,
so if user does not exist and if it does not exist, here we could also return next without storing the
request user.
So just that we are super safe that we don't store some undefined object in the user object but that
we continue without the user instead if we can't find the user. Here in the catch block, logging it is not
really useful though. It will make more sense to throw a new error here where we simply wrap the error
object we get here.
Throwing this error has a significant advantage which I will show you in a second
but with that, this looks good.
We added an extra check and if we do have some technical issue, we throw a real error
and as it turns out, expressjs gives us a way of taking care of such errors,
that is why I'm doing it like this.
Alternatively, we could of course also simply call next here to continue without request user being set
or anything like that
but I want to throw an error because we had a technical issue connecting to our database and that is
something that might be a bigger problem than just a non-existing user.